---
layout: post
title: "AWS - S3"
description: ""
category: posts
tags: [aws, s3, aws-dev-ops-pro, aws-solutions-arch-pro]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

S3 is an object based storage and is a key-value based - the key is the file name and the data in the file which is the value in addition to other data like the Version ID, access control information and metadata. S3 offers *Read after Write* consistency for `PUT` but **only** *Eventual* consistency for update `PUT` or `DELETE`.

AWS charges you for storage, requests and data transfer.

Use Multipart upload to stop and resume uploads and ideally for any file over 100mg and required over 5Gig. A benefit of multi-part upload is that you can upload a file as it is being created. 

S3 Limits - the minimium size for a s3 object is 0 bytes; 100 S3 buckets per account; 5Tb object size max.

## Security

Buckets are private by default but access control you can define a bucket policy and or an access control list. Access logs can also be defined if required. 

### Bucket Policies

While IAM policies apply to the user level, bucket policies apply to the resource level. Bucket owners can specify what other users can do the contents of the bucket - provided they can log into the console. This includes scenarios where others own the object in the bucket - think cross account PUT of an object.

Bucket Policies are:

1. Resource Based

1. A JSON file limited to 20kb

2. Should be used to manage all cross-account permissions for ALL S3 resources - ACL do not control detailed permissions.

1. Possibily conditional - they can use ACL attributes to conditionally grant access to objects

### S3 ACL

Stored in XML and can be used to manage access to objects NOT owned by the bucket owner. They can not explicitly deny permissions; they grant read and write permissions to other AWS accounts.


### S3 IAM Policies

S3 IAM policies can NOT grant anonymous access; use pre-signed URLs for this use case. But you can DENY access with IAM Policies. The star (*) can be used in a policy as a wild card as can template strings like: `${aws:username}`

Elements of an Access Policy include:

1. Principle - specific to bucket policies NOT user policies.

1. Effect - allow or deney

1. Action - what we want to describe

1. Resource - the ARN; the prefix for a bucket policy is "arn:aws:s3:::"

## Data Security

Data in-transit security happens using SSL or TLS (which is SSL v 3.1).

Data at-Rest - There are three flavors of Server Side Encryption (SSE) Server side encryption can be enabled using the REST API using x-amz-server-side-encryption header.

* S3 Managed Keys (SSE-S3) - no audit trail. Can't imagine this gets used much.

* AWS Key Management Service, Managed Keys (SSE-KMS) - this provides an audit trail.

* Customer Provided Keys (SSE-C) - you provide key; you manage key; you upload key to AWS...

* Customer encrypted - You could encrypt on the client too. 

### S3 Endpoints

To secure S3 further, enable an S3 end point for private subnets and create a bucket policy to restrict traffic. This disables the ability for private subnets to reach end points outside of the region.

## S3 Storage Classes

S3 - AWS guarantees 99.99% availability for the S3 Platform and 11 x 9 for durability.

S3-Infrequently Accessed - Less frequently used data that needs rapid access - there is a charge a retrieval fee; 99.9% availability

S3-Reduced Redundancy Storage - 99.99% durability & availablity - for files that can be regen'd.

[glacier](https://aws.amazon.com/glacier/) - an object storage capability that is mostly offline and way, way cheaper than S3. It might take hours (like 3-5 hours) to retrieve an object from glacier so it is mostly suited towards stuff you need to store but will rarely, if ever, need to access. Glacier stores data in archives which can range in size from 1 byte to 40 terabytes. The largest archive that can be uploaded in a single Upload request is 4 gigabytes - this would be smaller than regular S3.

## Versioning

Stores all version of an object; can be suspended but not disabled for bucket; can be used with MFA to provide extra layer of DELETE security. Cross region replication requires versioning and an IAM role setup. ALL version of the file are stored so the amount of spaced required can end up being HUGE. Versioning only starts after it is enable and files have been added - existing files end up with a NULL version.

## Storage Tiers & Lifecycle Policies

S3 - standard tier
 
Move to S3-IA - must be here for a minimum of 30 days (and be 128kb) before it can move to glacier

Move to Glacier - can move here directly after creation if needed

Permenantly Delete - yep, cool stuff this.

S3 lifecycle Policy - These are XML documents that are stored as a lifecycle sub-resource attached to the bucket. `PUT`, `GET` and `DELETE` actions can be done with the lifecycle policies.

## Bucket Names &amp; Such

Bucket names can not start with a '.' or '-' and cannot be formatted like an IP address. Remove public read access and use signed URLs with expiry dates to prevent read access from unauthorized sites. 

Files must be stored in buckets and buckets are a universal namespace.

Using a sequential prefix, such as time-stamp or an alphabetical sequence, increases the likelihood that Amazon S3 will target a specific partition for a large number of your keys, overwhelming the I/O capacity of the partition. If you introduce some randomness in your key name prefixes, the key names, and therefore the I/O load will be distributed across more than one partition.

## S3 Website Hosting

To make a website on S3 at a minimium upload an index document to your S3 bucket, enable static website hosting in your S3 bucket properties, select the 'Make Public' permission for your bucket’s objects or apply a bucket permission script. The only allowed domain prefix when creating Route 53 Aliases for S3 static websites is the 'www' prefix. S3 buckets do not have https!

CORS rules - The bucket hosting the assets needs CORS configuration - add the domain of the "static" site to fix this up.

## S3 Transfer Acceleration

Edge Location used by CloudFront are not just for download acceleration. S3 Transfer Acceleration uses the AWS backbone to speed up uploads. This costs more money. There is a distinct URL that syncs from the CloudFront edge locations to S3 bucket.

## S3 API Reference Points

### Bucket API (s3api)

Seeing that S3 is a REST API, all the operations... well, they are REST.

| S3 Bucket API Method  | Notes  |
|:--------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------:|
|    DELETE                 | Bucket, CORS, website, etc.  |
|  get/put bucket-versioning  |  enable/suspend bucket-versioning  |
|  get/put bucket ACL | Bucket, CORS, website, etc. | 
|  `head-bucket` & `head-object` | bucket/object exist? | 
|  `put-bucket-notification-configuration` | add notification | 

### Object API (s3)

This section of the API is REST-like and almost mirrors the linux command line.

| S3 Object API  | Notes  |
|:--------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------:|
| `DELETE` |  single file or using a DELETE Object |
| `GET` | Object, Object ACL, Object Torrent |
| `HEAD` | get meta data (might returns 404 or 403 error) |
| `POST` | writes an object to S3 from a form (can also copy the file) |
| `mb` & `rb` | make bucket & remove bucket |
| `website` | creates a website |
| `mv` & `rm` | move bucket & remove |
| `sync` | sync locations |

#### Multi Part Upload

Multi-part upload API allows you to upload parts of an object once broken apart. As a file/object is being created, the multi-part upload API will allow you to upload the file to S3. Only after all parts of the object have been uploaded do you execute the CompleteMultipartUpload API call which completes a multi-part upload by assembling previously uploaded parts.

You first initiate the multi-part upload and then upload all parts using the Upload Parts operation (see Upload Part). After successfully uploading all relevant parts of an upload, you call this operation to complete the upload. Upon receiving this request, Amazon S3 concatenates all the parts in ascending order by part number to create a new object. In the Complete Multi-part Upload request, you must provide the parts list. You must ensure the parts list is complete, this operation concatenates the parts you provide in the list. For each part in the list, you must provide the part number and the ETag header value, returned after that part was uploaded.

### Storage Rules

- Can't move from SA-IA -> RRS or S3

- Move to S3-IA? 30 days in current storage class

- Move to Glacier? if 128k (directlyAfterCreation == true || daysInS3-IA > 30 days) 

- Move from Glacier? nope.

### Error Codes from API

Common Errors - S3 handles error codes with HTTP response codes - which makes sense seeing that we are using a REST API here.

| S3 API HTTP Responses  | Notes  |
|:--------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------:|
| 403 Forbidden                    |   AccessDenied or AccountProblem |
| 409 Conflict  | BucketNotEmpty - you tried to delete a bucket that was not empty. |
| 400 Bad Request | InvalidBucketName, InlineDataTooLarge, InvalidPart/InvalidPartOrder, TooManyBuckets|
| 404 Not Found | NoSuchBucket, NoSuchBucketPolicy |
| 200 - Yeah!| All is good, continue about your day!|

##  Use Cases

Protect S3 file from delete or overwrite? enable versioning

Protect S3 bucket deletion? backup bucket to another account

Only certain folks can delete and overwrite? enable MFA delete

Only certain folks can change state of versioning? enable MFA

Cross region replication? Requires versioning on source bucket; deletes and lifecycle actions not supported

Slow file upload speed? [S3 Transfer acceleration](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/transfer-acceleration.html) or [multi-part uploads](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/mpuoverview.html)

Partner upload data? [Pre-signed upload URLs](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/PresignedUrlUploadObject.html)

Faster download of large objects? [range based `GET`](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/RESTObjectGET.html) or use CloudFront

[High TPS workload](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/request-rate-perf-considerations.html#get-workload-considerations)? prefix the key name with a hash or reverse timestamp string

`PUT` optimization on a strong network? multi-part uploads of between 25-50MB to max throughput

`PUT` optimization on Weak network? multi-part uploads of about 10MB to prevent upload restart

Rebuildable asset? S3-SSR (because you can regenerate it!)

Infrequently access (Backup & Archive or DR yet still active)? S3-IA

Greater than 4 hours retrieval, cheap (archive, digital preservation)? Glacier


