---
layout: post
title: "AWS - RDS"
description: ""
category: posts
tags: [aws, rds, aws-solutions-arch-pro]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

[Relational Database Service](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/) enables numerous RDMBS systems to run as a service. These Transactional Storage Engines are recommended for ACID transactions (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolated, Durability). RDS instances without Multi-AZ don't perform as well as those that are - backups, restores and all housekeeping activities are performed on the secondary instance.  Backups are stored on S3. Restoration only works for the default DB parameter and security groups are associated with the instance you will likely need to setup the DB default parameters and security groups. You maybe can change storage engine - if they are related.

### Backups

By default, backups are enabled and have a max retention of 35 days. A backup retention period of zero days will disable automated backups for this DB Instance. Restores manifest themselves as a new RDS instance with a new endpoint. 

Deleting an RDS instance deletes ALL the automated backups... but not the manual ones. =>>"I acknowledge that upon instance deletion, automated backups, including system snapshots and point-in-time recovery, will no longer be available."

In a multi-AZ configuration, backups are done from the standby. 

Every 5 minutes RDS backs up the transaction log. Combined with regular backups the "Latest Restore Time" is computed and "Restore to point in Time" option allows you to pinpoint a time to restore from.

#### Snapshots

Snapshots are a full copy of RDS database that are independent of scheduled backups. In a multi-AZ configuration, snapshots are done from the standby.  

### Encryption

Encryption at rest must be setup at instance create time and uses KMS to generate Master keys then use envelope encryption to generate data keys for the RDS instance. Once enabled, EVERYTHING is encrypted including read replicas and snapshots. The keys can't be changed after installation. All RDS instance types support encryption at rest and every RDS instance also includes a SSL Certificate for data encryption in flight.

As a result of this encryption, several limitations are introduced:

- Can't copy read replicas and snapshots

- Can't restore from one RDS engine to another

- Can't do cross region replications and snapshots seeing that KMS keys are region specific

Oracle and MS SQL Server support Transparent Data Encryption. Oracle does NOT integrate with KMS but will work with CloudHSM and the Oracle Wallet. SQL Server requires a key but that key is managed by RDS after enabling TDE.

### Multi-AZ failover

A multi-AZ failover process is key in the event of an AZ failure but is NOT a scaling solution.  Multi-AZ systems are setup within the same region - that would be obvious from the name.

For MySQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL replication from one zone to another causes a lot of higher write and commit latency - this is a synchronous physical replication - provisioned IOPS is recommended. Native replication, called Mirroring, is used for MS SQLServer.

Patching is another benefit of standy instances - patch the standby, failover, then patch the primary. Backups can be created from the standy instance and that can eliminate I/O locking and latency spikes from backups on the primary.

Failover is automatically triggers when the AZ or the underlying hardware fails or you can force a fail over using a *Reboot with failover* using the console or with `RebootDBInstance` API call given that failover is initialized. A slow server and corrupt data will NOT lead to a failover. Getting notification about a failover as you would expect - RDS events.

Failovers are implemented as a DNS change so the application servers have to re-establish connections with the failover instance.

Automated backup is done from the backup instances NOT the primary instance so there is no performance hit during backups.

### RDS Read Replicas

Read Replicas are used to scale RDS by creating a READ ONLY copy of your database in a single AZ. Possible use cases include:

- Scale beyond single instance I/O capabilities

- Serve read-only traffic during times the primary is unavailable (hard to visualize a scenarios where this is useful)

- Business reporting against almost live data without affecting the performance of the primary instance

A transactional DB engine must be used to support read replicas - so Aurora/MySQL/MariaDB must have InnoDB engine installed. Needs MySQL version 5.6 or later. MySQL allows multi-region read replicas.

PostgreSQL requires 9.3.5 and in this configuration uses the native PostgreSQL asynchronous streaming replication engine is used. 

Oracle and SQL Server do not support read replicas.

Limits:

- max 5 read replica per primary instance

- DB Snapshots and backups can NOT be taken from read replicas.

- Replicas can be promoted to a primary but this breaks the replication link.

Replica lag is a key metric - keeping the read replica on a similiar, in fact, exact same configuration of instances can help keep this metric inline. 

Using SSL for cross region replication is a great idea seeing that the data moves across the open Internet.

#### Read Replica Setup

Replication can also be used as a disaster recovery or data migration mechanism. Start by using mysqldump/mysqlimport and requires MySQL 5.6.13.

There are several ways to create Read Replica:

1. Restore a snapshot and select Multi-AZ deployment.

2. Auto backup must be enabled (this is done by turning the backup retention period to greater than 0) then RDS takes a backup copy of the database then enables replication. Without multi-AZ operations, IO is suspended while RDS snapshots the database; with Multi-AZ operations a snapshot is used. This can be enabled from the console OR using the `CreateDBInstanceReadReplica` call from the API. A backup or snapshot must have been created to setup a read replica.

## Aurora

MySQL compatible, relational DB that starts with 10Gb and scales in 10Gb increments to 64 Tb and up to 32 vCPUs and 244 Gb of RAM. 

Security is a good thing; must exist in a VPC, AES-256 for data in transit, use KMS keys or other keys to  encrypt storage, snapshots, backup, and replicas. If a database is created unencrypted you have to create another database.

It has amazing HA capabilities with 2 copies in 3 AZ so you get 6 copies of your data and it is self-healing through disk and data block data scanning and errors are fixed. You can have up to 15 Aurora read replicas and up to 5 MySQL read replicas (large affect on the primary because the transaction log is played against the replica)

There is automatic, continous incremental backups with a point-in-time restore within a second and are stored for 35 days by default.

## Oracle on RDS

Version of Oracle available include Oracle EE, Oracle SE, and Oracle SE One. Support Multi-AZ & manual snapshots. Oracle does NOT support multi-region replication.

Oracle RAC is not supported on RDS but can be implemented using EC2 placement groups and using Ntop N2n VPN software to tunnel between nodes. In addition, Oracle Data Guard can be implemented as well.

Importing uses two different tools... Oracle SQL Developer for small amounts and Oracle Data Pump for large amounts of data. 

Recovery Manager (RMAN) can be used for backup and recovery scenarios including hybrid on-prem/Cloud scenarios and Oracle EC2 instances. Use RDS snapshots for point-in-time snapshots in AWS only solutions.

## MS SQL on RDS

Supports point-in-time backups using snapshots, Multi-AZ deployments using the native MS Mirroring technology but read replicas are not supported. There is no support for multi-region or Cloud to on-prem replication in RDS based MS SQL but native tools can be used. 

On-prem to Cloud migration is super ugly... create RDS empty tables, disable backups/key contraints, import flat files. In addition, FILESTREAM functions are not supported and there is no ability to restore data from file. 

### DB Subnet

A DB subnet defines the regions for a multi-AZ RDS setup. The high level steps to create a DB subnet are as follows:

1. Create 2 new subnets in a VPC

1. In RDS Dashboard create subnet group & add the subnets you just created

1. Now launch an RDS instance and  select Multi-AZ Deployment

1. In "configure advanced settings" select subnet group you created

Presto, you have a multi-AZ DB subnet!

## Reserved RDS Instances

Each reservation is associated to a specific DB Engine, instance class, deployment type, license model and region (NOT AZ). And yes, you can have a reserved read replicas.

If any of these attributes are changed then pricing switches to on-demand pricing. Switch your instance BACK to the specs of the reservation OR create a new instance with the same specs, reservation pricing will apply. 

## Troubleshooting

Scaling the instance can happen immediately, if the checkbox is checked, or will happen in your maintenance window. 

Resizing will result in downtime if in a single AZ configuration. In a multi-az, the standby gets resized, there is a fail-over then the master is resized.

## RDS Monitoring

There are some non-critical metrics that can be monitored like `CPUUtilization`, `DatabaseConnections`, `DiskQueueDepth`, `FreeableMemory` and `FreeStorageSpace`.

More critical metrics and their solutions include:

| **Metric**  | **Solution**  |
|:-----------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------| 
| SwapUsage | Increase RAM |
|ReadIOPS/WroteIOPS| Increase IOPS |
|ReadLatency/WriteLatency| Increase IOPS |
|ReadThroughPut/WriteThroughPut| Increase IOPS |
|FreeStorageSpace| Increase disk space |
|ReplicaLag | Increase IOPS or instance size |

In addition to CloudWatch you can use the RDS service console to monitor RDS events. Event Subscriptions can be created as well. 

## Triage

Multi-AZ? For DR not scaling, sync replication

Read replica? Scaling not DR; async replication

Index/Query focused data? DynamoDB

Lots of BLOBS? Pointer to S3

Push button scalability? DynamoDB

DB2, Informix, Sybase? EC2

Complete control? EC2

