---
layout: post
title: "AWS Solutions Arch - Route53"
description: ""
category: posts
tags: [aws, route53, vpc, aws-dev-ops-pro]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

[Route 53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/) earns its name because DNS runs on port 53 and it is the DNS service for AWS. Route53 is an authoritative DNS service so it will translate domain names to IP addresses. Each domain is called a hosted zone. A record set is a rule within the hosted zone. 

Route53 Supports:

- MX records - Mail

- CNAME - cannonical names - CNAME can't be used for a naked domain (zone apex); 

- Alias records - just like a CNAME record; An alias record is the elastic IP of the DNS world; no cost

- A record - points to an IP address; IPV4

Route53 does NOT support internal DNS from AWS to an internal data center; it only works for request orginating from with a VPC.

### Routing Policy 

There are 5 different ways for Route53 to do its thing....route.
  
* Simple - like the name says - route to an address or a bucket
  
* Weighted - a percentage to one location and a different percentage to another; expressed as a integer value relative to one or more other integer values

* Latency - Use the latency routing policy when you have resources in multiple Amazon EC2 data centers that perform the same function and you want Amazon Route 53 to respond to DNS queries with the resources that provide the best latency.
  
* Failover - Use the failover routing policy when you want to configure active-passive failover, in which one resource takes all traffic when it's available and the other resource takes all traffic when the first resource isn't available.

* Geolocation - Use the geolocation routing policy when you want Amazon Route 53 to respond to DNS queries based on the location of your users.

#### Route53 Health Checks

Health checks can monitor an end point, the status of CloudWatch Metric or Alarm and when the healthcheck fails the thingy ( s3 bucket, ELB or instance) is taken out of the DNS group.

### Use Cases

Minimize costs? CNAME = $; Alias = free

Naked Domain? = A record or Alias record

Zone Apex? = A record or Alias record

A or B site testing? = Weighted Routing

Extend Internal DNS -> Route53? Add record set; then A record; create VPC DHCP options set with `AmazonProvidedDNS` and on-prem DNS server
