---
layout: post
title: "AWS - Batch"
description: ""
category: posts
tags: [aws, compute, aws-solutions-arch-pro]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

[Batch](https://aws.amazon.com/batch/) enables batch computing workloads on the AWS Cloud using Docker images. Can run serverless using Fargate OR dynamic provisioning of on-demand or Spot EC2 instances. Can be scheduled by EventBridge and orchestrated using Step Functions. 

Use Multi-node parallel jobs in Batch to run large-scale, tightly coupled, high performance computing applications and distributed GPU model training without the need to launch, configure, and manage Amazon EC2 resources directly. There is 1 main node and many child nodes; feels similar how Hadoop works. Works best with EC2 launch mode is a Cluster placement group; does not work with Spot. 

Workloads can run _Managed_ or _UnManaged_ compute environments. Un-managed compute environments require instances configuration, provisioning, scaling, and management. Managed compute environments you set the min/max vCPU and fleet type (on-demand or Spot) and Batch manages the capacity and instances types. Managed environments require the VPC must have access to the ECS and ECR service - NAT/IGW or VPC endpoint work. 

Managed compute environment set up:
0. Set min/max vCPU and fleet type (on-demand or Spot)
0. Batch launches instance that are likely different sizes
0. SDK is used to add Batch Job Queue 
0. Batch Job Queue distributes jobs
0. Autoscaling happens

## Lambda vs Batch

| Item       | Lambda     | Batch                            |
|-------------------|-----------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Time limit | 15 minutes | no time limit                    |
| Runtime    | limited    | any runtime                      |
| Disk space | limited    | unlimited (EBS)                  |
| Compute    | Serverless | Fargate or EC2 (on-demand, Spot) |