---
layout: post
title: "AWS - Route53"
description: ""
category: posts
tags: [aws, route53, vpc, aws-dev-ops-pro]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

[Route 53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/) earns its name because DNS runs on port 53 and it is the DNS service for AWS. Route53 is an authoritative DNS service so it will translate domain names to IP addresses. Each domain is called a hosted zone. A record set is a rule within the hosted zone. Route53 does three functions:
0. Register domain names
0. Route Internet traffic to resources
0. Check the health of your resources 

## Record types
Route53 Supports:
- A record - points to an IPv4 <address></address>; uses TTL, a time to live expressed in seconds; used for apex and maps to one or more IP addresses

- AAAA record - points to an IPv6 address

- CNAME - for use on non-apex names - CNAME can't be used for a naked domain (zone apex); costs money 

- Alias records - a Route53 specific record type that is similiar to a CNAME record; An alias record is the elastic IP of the DNS world; no cost; could point at CloudFront, EB, ELB, Bucket, Global Accelerator, other Route53 record set; no TTL possible

- MX records - Mail

- NS - Name servers

### Triage DNS record types

Minimize costs? Alias because it is free.

Sub Domain? = A record or Alias record

Any AWS service? Alias

Zone Apex (mclaughlin.today)? Alias pointing to the Load balancer

Zone apex to EC2? Alias to Elastic IP URL; CNAME to IP; Why? can't CNAME to apex; can't Alias to IP

ARN or other cloud resource lookup? Cloud Map

## Routing Policy 

There are ~~5~~ 7 different ways for Route53 to do its thing....route. Traffic policies enable traffic flow rules IaC. Traffic Flow is a console interface that enables the creation of traffic rules visually.
  
* Simple - like the name says - route to an address or a bucket; have more than one address? Route53 returns all values in a random order which results in the client picking the address; Health Checks
  
* Weighted - a percentage to one location and a different percentage to another; expressed as a integer value relative to one or more other integer values; Health Checks

* Latency - Use the latency routing policy when you have resources in multiple Amazon EC2 data centers that perform the same function and you want Amazon Route 53 to respond to DNS queries with the resources that provide the best latency. Health Checks.
  
* Failover - Use the failover routing policy when you want to configure active-passive failover, in which one resource takes all traffic when it's available and the other resource takes all traffic when the first resource isn't available; Health Checks required.

* Geolocation - Use the geolocation routing policy when you want Amazon Route 53 based on DNS queries location; must have default record unless you want to deny geos NOT on the list; failed close scenario. Must use Route53 traffic flow.

* Geoproximity routing - enables the ability to introduce bias to routing; support non-AWS resources using Lat/Long. Must use Route53 traffic flow.

* Multivalue - like simple but queries return up to 8 health resources; clearly not a substitute for an ELB.

### Triage Route53 Routing

Same content multiple buckets? Latency routing

active-passive? Fail over

Regional Fail-over? Latency based routing between regions; then do weighted resource record set between AZs with "Evaluate Target Health"

A or B site testing? Weighted Routing

Extend Internal DNS -> Route53? Add record set; then A record; create VPC DHCP options set with `AmazonProvidedDNS` and on-prem DNS server

### Route53 Health Checks

Health checks can monitor an endpoint, the status of CloudWatch Metric or Alarm, and when the calculated health checks. Can use HTTP/HTTPS or TCP; only available for public hosted zones.
- Calculated health checks - checks can use boolean logic and specify a minimum # of up to 256 alarms that should be healthy (useful for deployments). 
- End point health checks - can optionally read part of the response; ok if service responds with 2XX or 3XX from world wide health check points.

## Components &amp; Features

- Records - an A, AAAA, MX, NS, or Alias resolver statement

- Hosted zones - contains a set of records; can be public or private

- DNSSEC - verifies DNS data integrity and origin in public hosted zones; supports domain registation and signing; protects against Man-in-the-middle MITM attacks

# Hybrid DNS
By default Route53 can resolve external, public zones, and private zones. Hybrid DNS must be set up to resolve AWS names from on-prem (inbound) and on-prem names from AWS (outbound). These set ups can be used by one or more VPC in the same region. Endpoints can support 10K queries per second per IP; one IP per AZ for HA.

Inbound resolvers are not complicated. Create Route53 inbound endpoint. Simply point on-prem DNS servers to the Route53 endpoint, which is associated with 1 or more ENI in the VPC, containing the resources. Outbound resolvers route from the VPC through the resolver outbound end point to the on-prem NS. Conditional rules forward specified lookups to a specific IP address. System rules override conditional rules. Auto-defined rules work for private hosted zones and AWS internal domain names.

### Internal DNS (Private hosted zones)

Internal Route53 DNS is also called private hosted zones. For this to work the VPC must have `enableDnsHostnames` and `enableDnsSupport` enabled; when enabled Route53 uses the private IP address.

Internal Route 53 resource record sets only work if the originating request is made from within the VPC. Internal Route 53 record sets cannot be extended to on-premise usage.

Private hosted zone have to use CloudWatch alarms or metrics for health checks because they are not accessible from outside the VPC.
